- [Instructor] Now, that we've explored
how Maven builds work,
let's package our guest service
for the land and hotel application into a Maven project.
At the moment the source code for the project
is placed inside the Maven standard directories,
but it's missing some key ingredients like a POM
and the Maven Wrapper.
Let's use the Spring Initializer
to get those things in place.
So, on the Maven Initializer,
I'm going to indicate that we're using a Maven project,
then we'll need to provide a package name,
which will once again, become .linkedin.javacd.
Then for the name of the artifact,
I'm going to use guest dash service.
And we can come down here once again
and remove that suffix from our package name.
Okay, now let's go ahead,
we'll add the dependencies in.
We need Spring Web, we also need Spring Data JPA.
Then we're going to include the actuator
and then finally H2.
Okay, once all that's in place
just go ahead
and click on this button to download
the zip file with the Maven project.
From there, we can navigate over to our download directory
where we'll find the zip file.
I'm just going to extract it here
and then I'll copy the extracted folder named guest service.
Then I'm going to take that over
to our exercise files directory
and I'm going to overlay our existing guest service folder.
So, here I'll merge so that we get the new files,
then I'll overwrite our Git ignore file,
and then I'll skip overriding the source
since we already have it.
Okay, let's head to the terminal
and we can see what's within that directory.
There's the Maven Wrapper that Spring provided.
And you'll also notice a pom.xml
that was provided by Spring.
Let's take a look at that POM.
If you look closely at this POM,
you'll recall that it's very similar
to what we saw earlier in the course.
There's the Spring Boot Starter parent POM,
there's some of the Starter dependencies we talked about
for quickly getting up
and running with Spring projects.
And here at the bottom
you'll see the Spring Boot Maven plugin.
So it's going to provide some additional goals
that we can include within our build.
Let's go ahead
and we'll use the build plan plugin
to take a look at some of those.
So, here we can see how our build will execute
in all the plugin bindings.
It looks very similar to when we packaged a jar.
But you will notice one difference,
within the package phase
we're going to execute the repackage goal
on the Spring Boot Maven plugin.
And this is what's going to build that executable jar
that includes all of our different dependencies
in our embedded server.
So let's go ahead
and we'll package the application into that executable jar.
Okay, there we can see that the jar was placed
within our target directory.
I'm going to go ahead
and I'll navigate into the target directory.
And from here,
we're going to launch our executable jar
using plain old Java.
So I'll use the Java jar command,
then I'll add the profile for Spring.
That's going to be our local profile
and then I just need to provide the name of the jar,
there it is.
Okay, let's go ahead,
we can launch the application.
And there we see that the service is up
and accepting traffic.
If we'd like we can go ahead
and open a browser
and hit that service.
It's running on local host at port 8,882.
And then the end point
is API forward slash guest dash service
and then guest.
All right, so, there we see some Jason served up
by our microservice.
So, that's the last build
that we needed to establish for the services
in our land and hotel application.
This time we use Maven.
So, at this point we should probably standardize
on a single build tool
for all the microservices within our application.
So, let's go forward using Maven
throughout the rest of the course.
If you would like go back
and try to switch over the room service
from Gradle to Maven,
or you can just pick up with the exercise files
in our next lesson.